MaggiLearning Tool is Auto-pop-up generation software.
MaggiLearning Tool is silent software which stays in your taskbar.
Pop-up is a window which gives you the information and enhances your knowledge on the topic.
Pop-up has an Image Slider which enables you browsing the images related to the topic; On Mouse-over you can enlarge the images.
Pop-up also has TextEnlargeSlider which increases the text size to your choice.
Option (More) from the Pop-up enables you reading of the whole information on the topic.
Option (Video) enables you to view video related to the topic on the internet, using Firefox browser.
On the Right hand top corner (P) states the status to pending pop-up; on clicking it you can generate pending pop-ups.
With Left-click on icon, Pop-up is generated, If some new pop-up are available otherwise it Sends message "NO PENDING POP-UP"s".
With Right-click on icon, Menu is displayed where other options can be selected.
Option (Disable Pop-up) ceases the pop-up generation, Pop-up generation you can enable it by deselecting the same.
Option (Enable Auto-Generation) enables generation of pop-ups automatically without waiting for you to click; you can disable it by deselecting the same.
Option (About) gives the information about the software.
Option (Generate a tip) generates new pop-up on topics you have selected.
Option (View Current / Pending pop-ups) generates pending pop-ups if any.
Option (Review Previously Generated Pop-ups on TimeLine) enables you to view History of Pop-ups.
TimeLine is a window where you can find all the previous topics or say History of Pop-ups; you can review all the pop-ups on TimeLine.
Clicking on date, Pop-up generated on the date are shown in tab below, On Mouse-over the information can be retrieved.
The history of pop-up can be deleted by selecting them individually or By Week or Month.
To delete selected pop up you has to click "Delete Selected" button.
Options like "Keep Todays" and "Delete All Pop-ups" is also available.
Option (Add New Topic/View Previous Topics) Opens GridView of the Software.
GridView is a window where you can arrange topics of your choice in form of grid of 9-Major Topics.
To add new topic, type the name of topic and click on "SEARCH’, Select the URL"s from where you want the information to be generated, and click  
OK.
With Click on each Topic of GridView opens up window for Sub-topic.
You can Select/Deselect Sub-topic by check/Uncheck on the sub-topics.
Button (Priority) enables you to set priority to each Sub-topic, on click, PriorityView window is opened, which also can be accessed from Menu  
Option (Set Priority).
PriorityView is window that enables you to change priority of the pop-up with respect to topics.
Option (Max. Active topics) enables you to set the number of active topics from the priority list below.
To change priority you have to select the topic and move the topic up or below using the arrow buttons provided on the Left hand bottom corner in PriorityView window.
Option (Default Count) sets the count of maximum number of pop-ups generated with respect to the topic; count also can be changed manually.
If a certain topic is at the bottom-most position of the priority you can select the topic and sub-topic from the combo-box provided on the top of the  
PriorityView window, and hit the "SEARCH”, which will select the topic for you, thus saves your time in searching the whole list.
You can also change the position of selected topic directly by using "FAST FORWARD" provided at bottom of priority window.
Option (Settings) of the Menu is where you can change the look and feel of the software; by clicking on the same you can find three different settings options.
Sub-option (Settings->General Settings) with this you can select general working options of "Starting MaggiLearning Tool with O/S" and "Disable Pop-up".
Sub-option (Settings->Pop-up Settings) gives to full right to change look and feel of the Pop-up window.
You can change the text length for each pop-up by clicking (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Length of text Contents) and changing the counter.
You can change the TimeDelay between (in minutes) two consecutive pop-up by clicking (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Time Delay b/w 2 pop-ups (min)) and changing the counter, and hit "SET TIME".
You can change the StartTime (HH:MM) by clicking (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Starting Time of pop-up generation) and entering time of your choice and convenience, and hit the "SET TIME".
You can change the EndTime (HH:MM) by clicking (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Ending Time of pop-up generation) and entering time of your choice and convenience, and hit the "SET TIME".
Enable Auto-generation can also be done by clicking check (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Enable Auto-generation mode).
You can change Font of text by selecting font of your choice in (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Font) where you can also preview font you have selected.
You can change Color of text and preview the same by clicking (Settings->Pop-up Settings->Color) and choose color of your choice.
You can change Network Settings by clicking(Settings->Pop-up Settings->HTTP Proxy Settings)choose "No Proxy" or Enter Proxy Settings of your network. 
Thank You for using MaggiLearning Tool, We hope you enjoy it!!!